hello everyone welcome to this week's
protocol meeting  we have a couple
protocol meeting we have a couple
caps to discuss today  and I'll start
caps to discuss today and I'll start
by presenting cap
67 I'll share the link
here so  this cap is about emitting
here so this cap is about emitting
events in Stellar in the same format
that we see in sorine for Stellar assets
so that a user can use the stream of
events track
balances and this cap covers three
separate High higher level changes
they're listed in the abstract of the
cap and I'll first go over the  the
cap and I'll first go over the the
two smaller changes that make some
semantic fixes to the seller asset
contract events for compatibility with
set 41 which is the token interface
Set  so the first is that we're going
Set so the first is that we're going
to stop emitting  the admin  the
to stop emitting the admin the
admin on the mint and clawback events
the admin is an implementation detail of
the
sa  and does not belong in the event
sa and does not belong in the event
the admin doesn't even exist in sub 41
as a concept
the second change is that we're going
to update an edge case with regards to
transfers to and from an issuer  the
transfers to and from an issuer the
sa was written in a way that matched
classic payment semantics  where a
classic payment semantics where a
transfer from an issuer Min the asset
and a transfer to an issuer burns the
asset the issue is that in these two
scenarios we still emit a transfer event
instead of the appropriate Mint or burn
event  so this cap just proposes
event so this cap just proposes
fixing that to Mint the the mint the
correct Mint or burn event instead of
the transfer
prevent  so I'll pause there real
prevent so I'll pause there real
quick if there are any questions about
those two changes before I move on to
the  the bigger change at
hand all right then I'll move on to the
third and most significant change of
this cap which is emitting an event in
the same format as the Stellar asset
contract for any asset
movement  and this means that a a
movement and this means that a a
stellar operation that results in the
movement of an asset can emit
a transfer mint burn or clawback
event  and we're also adding a fee
event and we're also adding a fee
event to represent the fee paid by by
The Source count so the the cap
specifies what what the  events for
specifies what what the events for
each operation will look like but I'll
just mention some interesting points so
a trade that occurs through either
through an offer operation or path
payment operation will result in two
events one for each side of the trade
and the two parties on both events will
be the source account of the operation
and the owner of the
offer  and it's and these these events
offer and it's and these these events
can be transfer events but they can also
be instead be a mint or burn if the
issuer is
involved we're also adding  new SD
involved we're also adding new SD
address types to be able to represent
the claimable balances and liquidity
pools as from or two addresses in these
events and this allows us to represent
movements to and from these entries
yeah so  silence asked  can you
yeah so silence asked can you
explain removing the admin from the sa
mint and Clack events So currently on
the mint and Clack events of the sa not
not in set
41  the admin is  one of is is one
41 the admin is one of is is one
of the topics of the event but this is
this isn't necessary and the concept
of an admin is not required for  a
of an admin is not required for a
token exactly yeah it's not it's not
we're not removing the admin from the sa
just it just says the topic we're
removing it from the the topic of the
event all right  so yeah we're also in
event all right so yeah we're also in
addition to those two new address types
for clal balances and liquidity pools
we're also adding another SC address
type for MX accounts so that these new
events can pass along the MX information
that the MX account is used in the
operation or
transaction  it's also another thing
transaction it's also another thing
to
sh
screens so I'm I'm actually not
presenting this in the order that it
like it shows up in the cap this is just
some points I thought were
interesting but if you look at cap
67  these points should be listed
67 these points should be listed
there at a at a with more
detail  then yeah so yeah so I wanted
detail then yeah so yeah so I wanted
to mention that these new events will
not be Into The Ledger therefore will
not be part of the protocol and  we
not be part of the protocol and we
also will emit the emit these events
from Genesis if you replay from Genesis
and something to keep in mind here is
that there was a bug in a very old
protocol version where xlm was minted
and burned  and we will admit events
and burned and we will admit events
that will allow you to reconcile
those Balan
changes and finally we will be reworking
the format of TX meta with the
transaction meta V4 that generalizes the
events and separates them by operation
previously the events were for
formatted in a way where was very
specific to sorban and the fact that
sorban only has for a single sbon
transaction there's only one operation
but the transaction meta V4 generalizes
that and the plan is to provide a config
flag that enables the emission of this
new  meta
format  okay so let me look at some of
format okay so let me look at some of
these questions
so will this resolve the issue with a
locked issuer sa having an admin Sil can
do things the issuer
can't
lock no so I think what you're sounds I
think what you're asking is if you
change the admin  and you lock the
change the admin and you lock the
issuer the ad okay ignore that yeah they
the admin can still do whatever it wants
to
what else does back filling mean that
replaying with these new events enabled
will emit meta4 for all ledgers rather
than just post 23 yeah that is the goal
and we and that should work I we we
probably have some stuff to work through
there but if we want to admit these
events from  the beginning then it has
events from the beginning then it has
to be meta V4
see all right
so MX addresses and memo so yeah one one
of the issues is so the cap addresses
the M  partially by forwarding the M
the M partially by forwarding the M
addresses into the events but there is
another question about
memos  that I'll link this discussion
memos that I'll link this discussion
topic
[Music]
from from
Nico it's
relevant and at a high
level  this this amounts to
level this this amounts to
considering a solution where you can
group  an arbitrary memo with a with a
group an arbitrary memo with a with a
group of trans  events this will allow
group of trans events this will allow
you to you know solve some issues we've
had with  in the past with regards to
had with in the past with regards to
the design of memos  but that  but
the design of memos but that but
yeah I don't know if Lee if you want to
discuss this a little bit more that's
something this concept is something we
still have to
discuss yeah good  yeah so yeah NCO
discuss yeah good yeah so yeah NCO
may want to he he this is sort of I feel
like his idea so he may want
to speak to this as well  but there
to speak to this as well but there
you know we have the separate we have
another cap cap 64 that we're not
actually discussing today  that's
actually discussing today that's
doing some things with MOS it's
touching MOS and where they show up
where they will show up in
tooling  and  you know making it
tooling and you know making it
possible
to do a soran transaction
with a memo and have that safely
included in the signature so that's cap
64 and something that niik was bringing
up with this cap is that you know right
now we're in this moment where we're
making some significant changes to
events or we're doing a lot of work
around events and doesn't make sense you
know we have to sort of  we we sort of
know we have to sort of we we sort of
have to get close to Memos because we've
got this issue with moer dresses and you
know right now cup
in a very non-controversial way is just
suggesting that these events now might
contain addresses that are MX addresses
so we're just going to pass it through
so if you do a payment
operation  that's got a destination of
operation that's got a destination of
a Max address  that address field in
a Max address that address field in
the San event could be a MX address it
could be an M address instead of a g
address or a c address and I I think
that is like very not noncontroversial
it's sort of like straight line what
we I guess we would sort of expect the
cap to do in the situation  but there
cap to do in the situation but there
is this we have this history where you
know once upon a time there was memos
then there were M addresses  right now
then there were M addresses right now
the ecosystem is pretty  there's you
the ecosystem is pretty there's you
know both get used in the ecosystem so
both getting used by
exchanges  and but when you look at
exchanges and but when you look at
the data the data tells a somewhat
confusing story because this is memo
field there's this MOX address they can
be in the destination you know
technically sources can also be
addresses  and nik's Nik was sort of
addresses and nik's Nik was sort of
suggest I don't know if I don't know if
this was actually a proposal but he was
suggesting like do we do something more
here do we do we make these events in
this moment more opinionated about what
the memo for this event is  and you
the memo for this event is and you
know do we do something like if there's
a transaction memo this event has a memo
is or if there's a destination of a m
address do we pull the memo out of the
address and we say well actually that's
the memo for this
event to some degree like the ecosystem
has to do this somewhere and you know
right now it has to do this Downstream
ecosystem tooling  has to make a
ecosystem tooling has to make a
decision about where these events come
from  and in the future  like you
from and in the future like you
know right now memo memos there's like
MX addresses are only a classic thing
memos only occur at the transaction
level  in cap 64 but
level in cap 64 but
in the future  like how do you attach
in the future like how do you attach
memos to like other groupings or
transfers if there's you know transfers
being bundled together  yeah sorry I'm
being bundled together yeah sorry I'm
not sure I'm actually doing a great job
of summarizing this there's like a lot
yeah yeah it's definitely  something
yeah yeah it's definitely something
that still needs to be thought through
but I guess the question is  should we
but I guess the question is should we
explore yeah addressing that issue in
cap 67 it sounds like we should at least
at a high level I think I think we
should and I think what nio just posted
in the in the chat is a really succinct
way of for the why we should consider it
now and that is that you know cap 64 is
forcing the memo to be exposed in down
TR systems for San events and so it
makes sense since this cap is very
focused on that consistency between
classic and sorban and fixing it across
those two dimensions of you know San
versus classic sack versus set 41  it
versus classic sack versus set 41 it
makes sense to discuss
now yeah makes sense okay orbit asked
this question  why did we decide to
this question why did we decide to
extend the meta with the vents if these
events can be commuted dynamically from
the existing meta seems like redundant
data in the meta and this is something
we actually
discussed  internally I believe George
discussed internally I believe George
actually mentioned the same single
source of Tru truth rather than risking
bugs Downstream renting the wheel and
dynamic compute also Lee do you have I
say you mut yourself do you want to
address this yeah I can I can speak to
this  the a large part of this is that
this the a large part of this is that
you know when we look at  the tooling
you know when we look at the tooling
that we have today so we have a horizon
which takes a lot of What's  in the
which takes a lot of What's in the
mattera today and creates this data
model for people to consume  this new
model for people to consume this new
data model for people consume and then
St RPC was designed  with a different
St RPC was designed with a different
approach where the Stellar IPC really
exposes the raw network data  and
exposes the raw network data and
tries to introduce as little as possible
in terms of its own data model on top of
that and one of the reasons that Stell
IPC was designed that way is that  you
IPC was designed that way is that you
can go to  you know you can take
can go to you know you can take
contract events that have come out of
star RPC and they look the same way as
if you go and take meta out of core or
if you use G Galaxy  to you know
if you use G Galaxy to you know
generate a data Lake of meta like the
events look the same way in all these
different places except if you go to
Horizon you know Horizon has its own
data model and it has that effects data
model  which
model which
is you know very different so  the
is you know very different so the
idea between the ibr like how like why
bring these events to Classic and the
the the Stellar asset contract and the
CL operations is to create this like one
unified view that appears everywhere
that  looks the same everywhere that
that looks the same everywhere that
that the data
occurs okay I hopefully that answers
that question but if not let us
know  I think Lee you mentioned
know I think Lee you mentioned
another thing about  another question
another thing about another question
about asset names on the on the the
topic of the events right  because the
topic of the events right because the
currently go ahead maybe before we move
on it does sound like orbit has some
things I'm Orit do you want to  do you
things I'm Orit do you want to do you
want to speak
to yeah hello everyone  just wanted to
to yeah hello everyone just wanted to
add my two Sense on this  we've been
add my two Sense on this we've been
successfully reconstructing everything
from   transaction meta xdr on the
from transaction meta xdr on the
client side
basically our inje pipeline in Stell
expert is built on top of the
library  that we built  specifically
library that we built specifically
for this purpose  and we had a
for this purpose and we had a
conversation with the Horizon team
before like several years ago I think
where I proposed to
actually remove all this excessive data
tables like  effects and everything
tables like effects and everything
like this because  all of it can be
like this because all of it can be
reconstructed on the client
side of course  there are very
side of course there are very
specific  issues  like  the memo
specific issues like the memo
case lay covered before that
but maybe we can just
like conduct some research on it and
maybe the Parson Library we already have
and which have been tested  for years
and which have been tested for years
and which works with classic and
San  maybe it's enough because on the
San maybe it's enough because on the
client side people can just use it
directly in JavaScript to parse the
response they receive from
DC
Horizon now doesn't support
transaction meta so it's
probably case when we cannot use it
directly but  at least from RPC it has
directly but at least from RPC it has
zero problems is
Parson looks like George has something
to say but I can't bring him up on
stage there oh okay yeah I I actually
didn't have anything to say  I think
didn't have anything to say I think
it's a I think or makes a good point
but I do think that a unified event
stream  is better for  like your
stream is better for like your
average dap developer  even though we
average dap developer even though we
can do all the indexing on the Fly it's
probably more catered towards like
infrastructure  providers like Stellar
infrastructure providers like Stellar
expert and
Horizon so this is still going to have
value for people who are just
interacting with RPC
directly I mean we've been using it to
actually display transactions  in
actually display transactions in
Sellar
expert be wallet   reflector
expert be wallet reflector
refractor
everywhere  I'd say it's a universal
everywhere I'd say it's a universal
approach that can be used everywhere I'm
not insisting on it it just seems to me
that  transaction meta will be even
that transaction meta will be even
larger after that
and it might have some  duplicated
and it might have some duplicated
data because of  of this
can you hear me
well yeah I can hear you yeah okay great
so I I have a couple thoughts on this
first  if the meta size increase is
first if the meta size increase is
concerned I think I don't know if we
made it explicit anywhere but I think
this should be optional for the most
part
at least I don't see a good reason
for not making Z
so I I don't think and the same goes
actually for The Ledger changes
ideally you would be able to pick one or
another depending on what is your
Downstream
processing whatever suits you  then
processing whatever suits you then
regarding the library I wanted to point
out that well a not wa JavaScript is not
the only language out there but  also
the only language out there but also
there is like some Nuance to like there
is very Nuance difference between Ledger
divs and events because events tell you
what exactly has happened during the
transaction whereas weder deeps tell you
what was the state after the transaction
and  I think it matters more for soran
and I think it matters more for soran
but I don't know it might have some
interesting implications for classic I
don't know if they're interesting to
anyone but
just that the format of the event
like if you're processing Samson you
might be interested in processing Samson
as a stream of specifically events right
and not a stream of  some data types
and not a stream of some data types
that depend on the operations like can
see from the library correct me if only
them missing something there but this
don't seem to me like this stand and the
idea here is that you know if I wanted
to track just the movement of the
balance and I not particularly
interested in the exact semantics of
each and every store operation what I
could do is I could just ingest the
event stream and track the balance
for a given
account  which I think may be
account which I think may be
interesting to some consumers  so yeah
interesting to some consumers so yeah
this are just some thoughts on what why
buer doing this at
all I think  the argument regarding
all I think the argument regarding
the event stream is pretty solid because
this way  the server in this case
this way the server in this case
RPC handles  the streaming itself and
RPC handles the streaming itself and
indexing and cses and Etc so
instead of working with transactions and
Parson transactions  it can like
Parson transactions it can like
really rely on these events it's a solid
argument  it point is that  I'm not
argument it point is that I'm not
proposing to use JavaScript everywhere
maybe  we
maybe we
can like Port this  to rust  or
can like Port this to rust or
other languages and  use it inside RPC
other languages and use it inside RPC
inside  other applications  instead
inside other applications instead
of  adding the data we can like  do
of adding the data we can like do
it  on the fly in RPC itself right
it on the fly in RPC itself right
regenerate this events  because
regenerate this events because
basically all described events that what
we do with
[Music]
u with the transaction
M xdr  that's something we already
M xdr that's something we already
do so maybe it's just  one of the
do so maybe it's just one of the
options  instead of extending
options instead of extending
the xdr itself
again because  to me it looks already
again because to me it looks already
pretty
large my subjective opinion on
this but again if you could opt out of
imian events would that solve your issue
with the size because it's I think
besides the size concern I feel like the
suggestion of let's put Comm
implementation somewhere we just
suggesting well why don't we put this
common implementation right into ore I
don't think it makes a huge ideological
difference and I think it does make
something easier to maintain and to
ensure that they works correctly for b
yeah especially if we are doing
protocal changes  so yeah and just for
protocal changes so yeah and just for
the say I totally agree and
yeah so I don't know if you have any
strong arguments but I feel like you're
more or less in the same page here in
terms of standardization because it I
guess just in of putting it into cor
kind of make
sense yeah the standardization it sits
inside The Narrative of everything being
a contract so I think like that's what's
beautiful about this is that  you know
beautiful about this is that you know
today we have you know classic
operations and then we have everything
that happens on sorban  and the result
that happens on sorban and the result
of those things looks pretty different
but as a result of this work we're
moving towards this future where
actually everything that just happens on
classic looks exactly like a contract
that's executing and you know all assets
actually do have a contract that's
reserved for them they have the Stellar
asset
contract and so the events are just
going to look like everything that
happens with assets no matter if it's
classic or anything like that it just
looks like a contract  which is also
looks like a contract which is also
much more similar to other ecosystems
other like blockchain ecosystems as well
so  there's that familiarity for
so there's that familiarity for
everybody about how this works versus
say ethereum and other
things yeah and I I I'll make sure to
clarify in the  the cap that nothing's
clarify in the the cap that nothing's
being removed from meta and this will be
optional that's a good point
I mentioned the config flag for
transaction met V4 but I I'll go into
that in a little more detail  are
that in a little more detail are
there any other
questions I didn't quite catch if we
have made any final decision on
MOS  like what we talked about like 10
MOS like what we talked about like 10
minutes ago
wa wait what is the final stages because
I maybe I've lost it yeah so we're for
in the context of this cap we are the
we're forwarding the M account
information right into the the addresses
but for memos we still need to explore
what Nico mentioned earlier like so
there's nothing finalized there but we
but we are going to go look into that
right soal decision okay I was just kind
of missed it okay yeah
no yeah I'm not I'm not sure if we want
to discuss that more because it's not
actually nobody's actually written like
a a formal this is how we're how we
would propose an alternative for it to
work I mean I could say something right
now that I
think  I think aligns with what niik
think I think aligns with what niik
was talking about but I don't know if
I I think it'd be valuable if we
actually  get something written down
actually get something written down
then present it in the future meeting
because I know we  we have 30 minutes
because I know we we have 30 minutes
left and dimma has a couple caps to
present that's probably more valuable
right
great all right  go ahead okay yeah
great all right go ahead okay yeah
great  yeah I don't actually mind
great yeah I don't actually mind
spending more time on the events if
necessary but  if you're done  we
necessary but if you're done we
can go
to
app
that's six hisory
so this is basically a cap that
mostly changes the transaction set
but it does so in a pretty interesting
way  so as you may or may not know
way so as you may or may not know
Al a hustle you need to go through with
a Footprints  inur transaction is done
a Footprints inur transaction is done
for a good reason and this reason is
being able to run the transactions in
parallel because if you know your
footprint we know that you don't have a
data dependency between two
transactions and you actually can run
them in parallel without worrying about
any
synchronization  so given the
synchronization so given the
footprints in theory today what you
could do is you could right your own
version of core  application logic
version of core application logic
that takes the transactions and
partitions them somehow into threads
that R par from each other  but the
that R par from each other but the
issue with that is that  there is no
issue with that is that there is no
good boundary on how much time is it
supposed to take for example if you take
10 transactions without data
dependencies you could run them in 10
shads and they would for example take 10
milliseconds  after synchronization or
milliseconds after synchronization or
you could have the same 10 transactions
but all of them dependent on some W your
entries are being updated and thus you
cannot schedule them into 10 different
threads you would run them in the single
thread fres and in the end you will
spend not 10 milliseconds but 100
milliseconds to apply all
transactions  so basically there is
transactions so basically there is
since protocol doesn't do anything
currently about
pration  there is no good way to
pration there is no good way to
schedule the transactions in such a way
that it takes  some bounded and
that it takes some bounded and
expected well well there is still an
upper bound on the runtime but this
upper bound rise wildly and  it's not
upper bound rise wildly and it's not
good if Ledger May close both within 100
Mills or within like two seconds for
example  which is why  we are doing
example which is why we are doing
this cap fix3 which solves exactly that
problem which is  given  a set of
problem which is given a set of
transactions come up with a transaction
set data structure  that guarantees
set data structure that guarantees
certain time for appliances
transactions  is a c of course of that
transactions is a c of course of that
time being time in model constructions
and not of course well time CL time
because we  kind of cannot tell it
because we kind of cannot tell it
beforehand without tring the contracts
but we hope that our cost models are
good enough and another cave being that
you actually should have the fish is
sufficient amount of physical course to
support multi stading because well again
if you have just one core obviously it
doesn't matter if you run 10 shreds
there some
here  so  if you have just a single
here so if you have just a single
core and you wanted to apply
transactions in 10 threats obviously
you'll not get any performance gain
because well transactions are purely CPU
bound
so that's the motivation  for this
so that's the motivation for this
cap and the way it
works is  that we Define a new
works is that we Define a new
structure for the transaction set that
instead of having a linear array of
transactions  defines  two levels of
transactions defines two levels of
group transactions together and the
first level is called
stages  and I will talk about why
stages and I will talk about why
stages and what does it need for any
moment and then every stage  consists
moment and then every stage consists
of multiple clusters of transactions and
within the cluster transactions
generally may have data dependencies so
it is expect Ed in this cluster to have
data dependent transactions that need to
run
sequentially however there are no
data dependencies between the Clusters
themselves  and thus since every
themselves and thus since every
cluster is guaranteed to be
independent of every as cluster what you
could do is you could take every cluster
and put it into a separate physical
thread and  thus you can apply the
thread and thus you can apply the
whole stage  in parall is as many
whole stage in parall is as many
threats as you have
rers
also I probably forgot to clarify
what we consider data dependency it is
when a single transaction has an entry
in a retrade footprint and then another
transaction has the same entry in either
readon or retrade footprint me that one
transaction modifies the entry another
transaction as read so modifies it in
either case we need to sequence them
because  if you don't do that then we
because if you don't do that then we
will get non deterministic results for
any these
transactions now
why do we have this additional
level of  transaction grouping in
level of transaction grouping in
stages  the reason is that  if  we
stages the reason is that if we
just try to naively say hey let's just
par the put the transactions in separate
threads  put them transaction set and
threads put them transaction set and
that's it then  you may run into some
that's it then you may run into some
issues with  C traffic patterns for
issues with C traffic patterns for
example
imagine  an oracle contract for
imagine an oracle contract for
example right and imagine it updates and
entry some key and then there are bunch
of transactions that want to read the
value from the contract from the ccal
contract and that key  and thus we
contract and that key and thus we
have  data dependency on a single
have data dependency on a single
entry  but we have only a single rate
entry but we have only a single rate
of the entry but we have a lot of rats
of the exact same entry  so what we
of the exact same entry so what we
can do with this stages is that you can
put right into one stage and then all
reads into different
stages
and basically this introduces just a few
barriers of execution into the
transaction execution schedule  but it
transaction execution schedule but it
allows kind of efficiently work around
this traffic patterns and   given
this traffic patterns and given
smart enough maybe not even smart enough
algra for actually coming up with
this data structure  you can deal with
this data structure you can deal with
a surprising amount of conflicts all at
once without introducing any special
scheduling and synchronization procedure
so basically just have a few barriers
in between the transaction applications
and this allows resolving a lot of the
conflicts at the same time  before
conflicts at the same time before
driving deeper I go read that for a
moment and there any questions far
okay  the new adjust approach
okay the new adjust approach
okay so this  app itself just changes
okay so this app itself just changes
the structure of the transaction sets it
doesn't have any particular changes
around how we  which transactions do
around how we which transactions do
we pick at
all but  what I can say that the
all but what I can say that the
protocol specification remains such that
that transaction ification order is
randomized and I think in case of  M
randomized and I think in case of M
manipulations  nothing changes from
manipulations nothing changes from
the current approach because  for any
the current approach because for any
Arbitrage you're probably going to have
the data dependency and data dependent
transactions are applied sequentially
and  all we shuffle all the stuff that
and all we shuffle all the stuff that
is being applied sequentially so the
transaction order is still  for to
transaction order is still for to
predict and  yeah I don't think it's
predict and yeah I don't think it's
any easier to manipulate than it is
currently which is to say it's not
impossible but just spaming Ledger is a
arbitr transaction for
example
[Music]
yeah  in terms of the system
yeah in terms of the system
requirements again the cup doesn't
Define them  I will will talk about
Define them I will will talk about
this in a moment  but  of course yes
this in a moment but of course yes
if we want to run transactions in
parallel then well you need to have
certain number of course present  on
certain number of course present on
the validator which is I guess a
tradeoff with the  like that's
tradeoff with the like that's
horizontal scaling the notot use better
Hardware as then cannot find more
transaction
M resarch maybe maybe I think I
already have the section on shoing the
transactions so may be efficient maybe
not
yeah  okay I see question regarding Z
yeah okay I see question regarding Z
and  let me actually go a bit deeper
and let me actually go a bit deeper
regarding how exactly things are
specified first thing is that
Moro  does introduce a new network
Moro does introduce a new network
configuration setting for the maximum
number of f per stage which roughly well
not roughly but basically maps to the
EXP Ed number of course   that your
EXP Ed number of course that your
that the network is willing to throw it
when ledgers if you have less course
then  it may take for you longer
then it may take for you longer
than expected to pric transactions you
have more cores  or at least that many
have more cores or at least that many
you should be good and  as all the
you should be good and as all the
network configuration settings  this
network configuration settings this
setting  will be  Modified by
setting will be Modified by
validator vot so you know some
validators say that we don't have that
many cores  they will not vote for
many cores they will not vote for
this and  ultimately Network can
this and ultimately Network can
decide if requirements for to rers are
too expensive or  too hard to come
too expensive or too hard to come
this come up this and  also to make it
this come up this and also to make it
clear when we upgrade to protocal 23
this setting will be set to just one so
any parallelism allowed as network
settings so you know that to enable any
parallelism  Network quote to
happen Okay
[Music]
then to the structure okay I already
talked through the specification of the
data structure
the phas fee and search pricing will
work in the same way as it works now
which is there will be a single base fee
for the
transactions it is 100 Stoops  if
transactions it is 100 Stoops if
there is no search price in and if there
is SAR pricing which means like if there
were transactions that you couldn't
include in The Ledger but this that were
in the mle  we take the fee of the
in the mle we take the fee of the
cheapest transaction that we do include
and use it as a base fees that everyone
has to
pay
okay and now again to the apply order
first  there is still a canonical
first there is still a canonical
apply order  that is defined in cap so
apply order that is defined in cap so
you still can apply all the transactions
sequentially and arrive at the same
result as you would if you were  if
result as you would if you were if
you applying them in
parallel and  similar to what we do
parallel and similar to what we do
now  we Shuffle the things before
now we Shuffle the things before
applying them  first we Shuffle every
applying them first we Shuffle every
cluster  using the hash of the
cluster using the hash of the
transaction set and hash of every
transaction then the  for the Clusters
transaction then the for the Clusters
we don't need to shuffle them but
by the transaction
hashes and then we Shuffle the stages as
well so yeah like so transactions are
in different stages  one may happen
in different stages one may happen
before or after another
one
that's kind of what to do for Shing
and I think it's not significantly
different from our St
yeah I don't think  it does
yeah I don't think it does
anything specific
to again it doesn't changes status quo
for M  on the large scale like I think
for M on the large scale like I think
the best thing you can do is still just
Spam the network is heritor transactions
it is the issue we have now and  it
it is the issue we have now and it
persists like the goal of this cap is
not to prevent  these types of attacks
not to prevent these types of attacks
but it does not make it any easier to
guarantee any particular execution order
between two
transactions  so yeah I don't see like
transactions so yeah I don't see like
if you see something specific like maybe
you know maybe we can up Asing later
but I yeah I don't think there is any
change to to the execution orders that
is relevant
for
right  okay so that's a kind of
right okay so that's a kind of
simpler part of the cap so again
multiple threads to apply transactions
in parallel oh  the most important
in parallel oh the most important
thing that I forgot to mention is that
we limit the number of sequential
instructions across all the stages which
means that for every stage we look at
the cluster that takes the longest time
in terms of model instructions and then
we sum up this numbers across all the
stages and then we come up with some
number of sequential modeled
instructions which are hopefully
approximating the real runtime for
applian the transaction set given and
physical threats for example  if the
physical threats for example if the
Ledger limit currently is 500 milon
instructions  with  this cap for
instructions with this cap for
example if you set Ledger Max dependent
TX clusters to for example eight meaning
you need eight physical threads and we
keep the limited 500 million
instructions we expect the weder
application time be roughly a factor of
500 million virtual instructions which
we still on to few hundred milliseconds
currently  our cost
currently our cost
models
yeah so that's kind of the simpler
part of the cap  the trickiest thing
part of the cap the trickiest thing
is the GTL update semantic change
so all this data dependency stuff is
very good and nice but  one thing that
very good and nice but one thing that
we again consciously did  when La in
we again consciously did when La in
San is  we allow extending the dtl of
San is we allow extending the dtl of
the entries  even if the entries are
the entries even if the entries are
in read only footprint and the reason
for that is that well we expect TTL
updates to be really
prevalent and  if we treated them as
prevalent and if we treated them as
rights  there is a big chance we
rights there is a big chance we
wouldn't be able to AR anything at all
because things would be just just
Clump together with all this clusters of
for us contract that happen to update
totl on the same
entes  which is why we decided that we
entes which is why we decided that we
actually can  reconcile the r changes
actually can reconcile the r changes
after running all the transactions
without risking  introducing any
without risking introducing any
nondeterminism and this TTL updates
someand exchange is  doing exactly
someand exchange is doing exactly
that   changes how we update ttls in
that changes how we update ttls in
such a way that  changes to TTL
such a way that changes to TTL
done by transactions that only touch the
readon entries  are not observable
readon entries are not observable
until  someone actually writes the
until someone actually writes the
entry or until we have finished applying
all the
transactions  which is good enough to
transactions which is good enough to
be able to actually run all the
transactions that have the same ke only
the run them in parallel and still right
have the proper TTL
value and the algorithm proposed is
pretty leny but the gist of it is that
if  two transactions  update to
if two transactions update to
TL on the same
entry  they both will see the initial
entry they both will see the initial
state of the TTL of the
tantry and  will be charged the
tantry and will be charged the
respective fee for set so for example if
transaction a has a key in with only
footprint and updates TL of some say xlm
contract rate  by 200 ledgers
contract rate by 200 ledgers
increases TTL by 200 ledgers and then
transaction B increases TTL of exm
contract by 100 ledgers  well the
contract by 100 ledgers well the
transaction a will pay for extension by
200 ledgers and transaction B will pay
for the D extension by 100 Ledges but
what we will do in background is we will
correct this TTL changes and only apply
the maximum change out of that to the
ler out of this two to the ler which
means that the  exm contract will be
means that the exm contract will be
in the end extended by 200
lers and it does introduce  bit of
lers and it does introduce bit of
annoyance into how  mattera should be
annoyance into how mattera should be
processed which is unfortunate but  I
processed which is unfortunate but I
couldn't think of a way that is both
compatible with prism and doesn't
require any changes in met ingestion and
this change is
that  basically when ingesting the
that basically when ingesting the
changes in TLS from the mattera you
should never decrease TT
this is only thing you need to do
it is documented in the cap and you'll
probably make another announcement
but  yeah we kind of get around doing
but yeah we kind of get around doing
something special for the map and this
seems like the minimum possible change
so TTL like that you record in the back
end and never go down but the TTL That
You observe in the
is correct DET change for the mattera is
correct in the context of a given
transaction meaning as I mentioned
before  that will charge the fee
before that will charge the fee
based on the changes that you observe in
The
Meta
and this is kind of the ju of it and
U right
yeah I can talk a little bit about
candid generation and then move on to
question  caps don't typically provide
question caps don't typically provide
a way of how to actually build a
transaction sets  which makes sense it
transaction sets which makes sense it
doesn't need to be a part of the
protocol as long as it is valid it
doesn't matter how it has been built
but will'll likely implement the simple
gitty algorithm  described in the cap
gitty algorithm described in the cap
and the idea behind it is just to pack
the transactions into the stages
R  while uring  we are utilizing the
R while uring we are utilizing the
stes  properly by being packing from
stes properly by being packing from
time to time and the efficiency of being
packing heris sixs is surprisingly
good so in the end I think we can I
added some benchmarks and  we can both
added some benchmarks and we can both
P the leeders pretty efficiently like
uze most of the instructions and we can
also deal with a decent amount of
conflicts like if you have some
relatively sparse clusters of conflicts
that will not cause any depredation
in lure utilization at all and in order
to have any real degradation un need
like some super inter interdependent
transaction for which I don't expect to
be  happening in the wild  so I
be happening in the wild so I
think this should be good enough at
least  initially and  if we ever
least initially and if we ever
observe there are issues with that
ways to deal with that both at the mle
level and the U wayer of building the
transaction sets
I think that's all I wanted to talk
about just to present the cap and  now
about just to present the cap and now
I will most through the chat and read
some questions
[Music]
yeah  question from niik about the
yeah question from niik about the
meta changes for
TTL
M net diffs for
ttls not emit one per
transaction well  we still need to
transaction well we still need to
emit TT per transaction I think because
they are an effect of the transaction
this is how we charge P  and I I'm not
this is how we charge P and I I'm not
sure it is correct to just omit
them and
[Music]
whether we want to update meta I have
considered this I I'm not sure it is
necessarily a better solution so
basically the alternative to what is
proposed in this app is  well we could
proposed in this app is well we could
add yet another field to the mattera
that will explicitly output the
TTL every entry facted by the wer the
final for it after applying every
transaction in The Ledger
[Music]
I like that's potentially a
significant amount of duplication unless
we also kind of remove the changes for
transaction I'm not sure if it is a good
idea to remove the changes per
transaction because then well meta just
has some entries drop that transaction
has actually affected which makes tricky
to debu transactions for example makes
to understand your fees if you ever
wanted to run  the computation logic
wanted to run the computation logic
comp so I'm sure we can omit that Pro
transaction changes but then I'm not
sure if duplicating this data is
necessarily making things much easier to
just not decrease in TTL with your track
on
it
so that's my opinion
and I I mean you either need special
Logic for merges or you need special
Logic
for this new types of TT entries and you
also need to kind of sometimes ignore
that for transaction changes  I'm
that for transaction changes I'm
honestly not convinced if it is a good
idea and if you wanted it possible to
only ingest the T changes after the LED
then so that you don't even need to
process per transaction changes at all
then basically we duplicate every TTL
change into which is again probably not
very Fe you don't know n if you want
to talk more about this
or we can continue offline
okay I don't see any more questions
and we actually have just three
minutes left so  if anyone has any
minutes left so if anyone has any
questions  please feel free to comment
questions please feel free to comment
on the ad discussions read it is  yeah
on the ad discussions read it is yeah
I guess the to meta change is really the
most controversial thing about it
everything else
is really uncontroversial I feel because
though we are just allowing to include
more transactions in Ledger and we still
shuffle them so no changes for any  so
yeah yeah and one final thing I'll say
thanks thanks for presenting Dima
We we forgot to talk about back to the
unified events a one topic about how the
sa events have the asset name of the
topics but SE 41 doesn't specify
having putting the asset name in the
topic so  lee is about to start a
topic so lee is about to start a
thread about this so we can discuss it
there  yeah yeah Le just posted the
there yeah yeah Le just posted the
thread in the chat  yeah that's all
thread in the chat yeah that's all
that's all we have for today thank you
for joining